README.md, before:

# Welcome!

This repo contains the parts needed to build a docker container hosting my personal website. It is considered my final project for Harvard's CS50.

For the course, it has been built, registered to a local registry and deployed to a local machine in my home network.


## Database

Currently a database is accessed using sqlite3 for the purposes of this project. Before deploying into production, that database will be changed out in favor of postgres.


## Docker

A Dockerfile is supplied in order to be able to build the Docker container so that the image does not have to be pushed to a public registry. 
Assuming Docker is already installed, after cloning this repo, the image can be built using `docker build .`.


## Flask

The website is built using the flask framework. A `requirements.txt` file is supplied with the required pip modules.


## Heimdall

For the internal dashboard, a Heimdall container is used running on the same host as the flask app container. 
To avoid exposing internal/sensitive data, the dashboard only has one visible link -- back to the CS50 homepage for this semester.


## Mailgun API

As part of the website, there is a contact form which sends a POST request to the Mailgun API endpoint. Currently, the API key is hardcoded into the flask app. 
Prior to deployment, the API key will be rotated and stored in an env file.


## Routing

The running instance is accessed via two nginx reverse proxies. The first routes the traffic to the correct machine, the second routes it to the correct Docker container.
From the flask app, after logging in, the app directs to cs50.averydorgan.local. This is an internal-only dns record that only resolves on the docker host.
Attempting to access cs50.averydorgan.local from the general internet will not resolve. This record will be removed prior to deployment into production.


## Endpoints

The two endpoints of note for this project are `/register` and `/login`. 
The first will allow you to register by writing to the database.
The second will authenticate against the database and log in if successful.

Commit message:

add link to video to readme

README.md, after:

# Welcome!

This repo contains the parts needed to build a docker container hosting my personal website. It is considered my final project for Harvard's CS50.

For the course, it has been built, registered to a local registry and deployed to a local machine in my home network.

[A video describing the project](https://youtu.be/dWMxQ5brlRw) can be found on YouTube.

## Database

Currently a database is accessed using sqlite3 for the purposes of this project. Before deploying into production, that database will be changed out in favor of postgres.


## Docker

A Dockerfile is supplied in order to be able to build the Docker container so that the image does not have to be pushed to a public registry. 
Assuming Docker is already installed, after cloning this repo, the image can be built using `docker build .`.


## Flask

The website is built using the flask framework. A `requirements.txt` file is supplied with the required pip modules.


## Heimdall

For the internal dashboard, a Heimdall container is used running on the same host as the flask app container. 
To avoid exposing internal/sensitive data, the dashboard only has one visible link -- back to the CS50 homepage for this semester.


## Mailgun API

As part of the website, there is a contact form which sends a POST request to the Mailgun API endpoint. Currently, the API key is hardcoded into the flask app. 
Prior to deployment, the API key will be rotated and stored in an env file.


## Routing

The running instance is accessed via two nginx reverse proxies. The first routes the traffic to the correct machine, the second routes it to the correct Docker container.
From the flask app, after logging in, the app directs to cs50.averydorgan.local. This is an internal-only dns record that only resolves on the docker host.
Attempting to access cs50.averydorgan.local from the general internet will not resolve. This record will be removed prior to deployment into production.


## Endpoints

The two endpoints of note for this project are `/register` and `/login`. 
The first will allow you to register by writing to the database.
The second will authenticate against the database and log in if successful.
